Create nullable migration tutorial (#10383)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/tutorials/upgrade-to-nullable-references.md

---
title: Design with nullable reference types
description: This advanced tutorial provides an introduction to nullable reference types. You'll learn to express your design intent on when reference values may be null, and have the compiler enforce when they cannot be null.
ms.date: 12/03/2018
ms.custom: mvc
---
# Tutorial: Migrate existing code with nullable reference types

C# 8 introduces **nullable reference types**, which complement reference types the same way nullable value types complement value types. You declare a variable to be a **nullable reference type** by appending a `?` to the type. For example, `string?` represents a nullable `string`. You can use these new types to more clearly express your design intent: some variables *must always have a value*, others *may be missing a value*. Any existing variables of a reference type would be interpreted as a non-nullable reference type. 

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Enable null reference checks as you work with code.
> * Diagnose and correct different warnings related to null values.
> * Manage the interface between nullable enabled and nullable disabled contexts.

> > * Control nullable annotation contexts

Reviewer: Nit: period at the end of this bullet, or not on any of them?

## Prerequisites

> You’ll need to set up your machine to run .NET Core, including the C# 8.0 beta compiler. The C# 8 beta compiler is available with [Visual Studio 2019 preview 1 and later](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/preview/), or [.NET Core 3.0 preview 1](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.0).

Reviewer: Nit: another non-ASCII apostrophe. I won't point out any more of these.

This tutorial assumes you're familiar with C# and .NET, including either Visual Studio or the .NET Core CLI.

The sample application that you'll migrate is an RSS feed reader web app. It reads from a single RSS feed and displays summaries for the most recent articles. You can click on any of the articles to visit the site. The application is relatively new, but was written before nullable reference types were available. The design decisions for the application represented sound principles, but don't take advantage of this important language feature.

The sample application includes a unit test library that validates the major functionality of the app. That project will make it easier to upgrade safely, if you change any of the implementation based on the warnings generated. You can download the starter code from our [samples GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start).

> Your goal migrating a project should be to leverage the new language features so that you clearly express your intent on the nullability of variables, and do so in such a way that the  compiler does not generate warnings when you have the nullable annotation context and nullable warning context set to `enabled`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your goal migrating a project should be to leverage the new language features so that you clearly express your intent on the nullability of variables, and do so in such a way that the compiler doesn't generate warnings when you have the nullable annotation context and nullable warning context set to `enabled`.
```

## Upgrade the projects to C# 8

A good first step is to determine the scope of the migration task. Start by upgrading the project to C# 8.0 (or newer). Add the `LangVersion` element to both csproj files for the web project and the unit test project:

```xml
<LangVersion>8.0</LangVersion>
```

Upgrading the language version selects C# 8.0, but does not enable the nullable annotation context or the nullable warning context. Rebuild the project to ensure that it builds without warnings.

A good next step is to turn on the nullable annotation context and see how many warnings are generated.  Add the following element to both csproj files in the solution, directly under the `LangVersion` element:

```xml
<NullableContextOptions>enable</NullableContextOptions>
```

Do a test build, and notice the warning list. In this small application, the compiler generates five warnings, so it's likely you'd leave the nullable annotation context enabled and start fixing warnings for the entire project.

> That strategy works only for the smallest projects. For any larger projects, the number of warnings generated by enabling the nullable annotation context for the entire codebase makes it harder to fix the warnings systematically.

Reviewer: This may be a place to suggest "project at a time" as a strategy. (If a large application consists of many small projects.)

## Warnings help discover original design intent

> There are two classes that generate multiple warnings. Start with the `NewsStoryViewModel` class. Remove the `NullableContextOptions` element from both csproj files so that you can limit the scope of warnings to the sections of code you're working with. Open the `NewsStoryViewModel.cs` and add the following directives to enable the nullable annotation context for the `NewsStoryViewModel` and restore it following that class definition:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two classes that generate multiple warnings. Start with the `NewsStoryViewModel` class. Remove the `NullableContextOptions` element from both csproj files so that you can limit the scope of warnings to the sections of code you're working with. Open the *NewsStoryViewModel.cs* file and add the following directives to enable the nullable annotation context for the `NewsStoryViewModel` and restore it following that class definition:
```

```csharp
#nullable enable
public class NewsStoryViewModel
{
    public DateTimeOffset Published { get; set; }
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public string Uri { get; set; }
}
#nullable restore
```

> These two directives help you focus your migration efforts. The nullable warnings are generated for the area of code you're actively working on. You'll leave them on until you're ready to turn on the warnings for the entire project. You should use the `restore` rather than `disable` value so that you don't accidentally disable the context later when you've turned on nullable annotations for the entire project.

Reviewer: Wouldn't I remove all the `#nullable` directives from my code entirely after I've turned on nullable annotations for the entire project?

The `NewsStoryViewModel` class is a data transfer object (DTO) and two of the properties are read/write strings:

[!code-csharp[InitialViewModel](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start/SimpleFeedReader/ViewModels/NewsStoryViewModel.cs#StarterViewModel)]

These two properties cause `CS8618`, "Non-nullable property is uninitialized". That's clear enough: both `string` properties have the default value of `null` when a `NewsStoryViewModel` is constructed. What's important to discover is how `NewsStoryViewModel` objects are constructed. Looking at this class, you can't tell if the `null` value is part of the design, or if these objects are set to non-null values whenever one is created. The news stories are created in the `GetNews` method of the `NewsService` class:

[!code-csharp[StarterCreateNewsItem](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start/SimpleFeedReader/Services/NewsService.cs#CreateNewsItem)]

> There's quite a bit going on in the preceding block of code. This application uses the [AutoMapper](http://automapper.org/) NuGet package to construct a news item from an `ISyndicationItem`. You've discovered that the news story items are constructed and the properties are set in that one statement. That means the design for the `NewsStoryViewModel` indicates that these properties should never have the `null` value. These properties should be **nonnullable reference types**. That best expresses the original design intent. In fact, any `NewsStoryViewModel` *is* correctly instantiated with non-null values. That makes the following initialization code a valid fix:

Reviewer: This was an interesting part of the NDC talk for me - I didn't want to interrupt, but did want to mention it later.

Is AutoMapper configured to guarantee that it will populate all values? What about if the `ISyndicationItem` has some null values, possibly because they're missing in the feed itself?
That's probably useful to consider for an article in its own right...

Author: Yes, this is a subject for an entire article. There's two interesting cases: 

1. where your code calls a 3rd party library that is nullable oblivious.
1. where a nullable oblivious library invokes your code. (Automapper and DI containers are good examples).

[!code-csharp[FinishedViewModel](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/ViewModels/NewsStoryViewModel.cs#FinishedViewModel)]

Once that's done, you need to update the code that configures the automapper so that it uses the constructor rather than setting properties. Open `NewsService.cs` and look for the following code at the bottom of the file:

[!code-csharp[StarterAutoMapper](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start/SimpleFeedReader/Services/NewsService.cs#ConfigureAutoMapper)]

That code maps properties of the `ISyndicationItem` object to the `NewsStoryViewModel` properties. You want the AutoMapper to provide the mapping using a constructor instead. Replace the above code with the following automapper configuration:

[!code-csharp[FinishedViewModel](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Services/NewsService.cs#ConfigureAutoMapper)]

> Notice that because this class is small, and you've examined carefully, you should turn on the `#nullable enable` directive above this class declaration. This change could have broken something, so it's worthwhile to run all the tests and test the application before moving on.

Reviewer: Possibly clarify that "this change" refers to the constructor change, not using `#nullable enable`? It would be good to hammer home the message of "no code generation is changed by nullable contexts".

> The first set of changes showed you how to discover when the original design indicated that variables should not be set to null. The technique is referred to as **correct by construction**. You guarantee that an object and its properties cannot be null when it is constructed. The compiler's flow analysis provides assurance that those properties are not set to null after construction.

Reviewer: We're not really guaranteeing anything here though, because there's no validation. AutoMapper could pass in null values.
I'd really like to see that mentioned, in terms of two somewhat different versions of "safe" - compile-time "pretty close to guaranteed, if everything is turned on" vs execution-time verified.

> The first set of changes showed you how to discover when the original design indicated that variables should not be set to null. The technique is referred to as **correct by construction**. You guarantee that an object and its properties cannot be null when it is constructed. The compiler's flow analysis provides assurance that those properties are not set to null after construction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first set of changes showed you how to discover when the original design indicated that variables shouldn't be set to `null`. The technique is referred to as **correct by construction**. You guarantee that an object and its properties cannot be `null` when it's constructed. The compiler's flow analysis provides assurance that those properties aren't set to `null` after construction.
```

> Other times, the structure of a class provides different clues to the intent. Open the `Error.cshtml.cs` file in the `Pages` folder. The `ErrorViewModel` contains the following code:

Reviewer 2: In the ASP.NET Core docs, we italicize file and folder names. Ignore this suggestion if the standard differs in this docset.

```suggestion
Other times, the structure of a class provides different clues to the intent. Open the *Error.cshtml.cs* file in the *Pages* folder. The `ErrorViewModel` contains the following code:
```

Author: I think we've generally used code fencing for file and folder names. @mairaw what do you think?

Reviewer 3: We use italic like for file and folder names too, following what ASP.NET already was doing.

[!code-csharp[StarterErrorModel](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Error.cshtml.cs#StartErrorModel)]

Add the `#nullable enable` directive before the class declaration, and a `#nullable restore` directive after it. You'll get one warning that `RequestId` is not initialized. By looking at the class, you should decide that the `RequestId` property should be null in some cases. The existence of the `ShowRequestId` property indicates that missing values are possible. Because `null` is valid, add the `?` on the `string` type to indicate the `RequestId` property is a *nullable reference type*. The final class looks like the following example:

[!code-csharp[FinishedErrorModel](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Error.cshtml.cs#ErrorModel)]

Check for the uses of the property, and you see that in the associated page, the property is checked for null before rendering it in markup. That's a safe use of a nullable reference type, so you're done with this class.

## Fixing nulls causes change

> Sometimes, the fix for one set of warnings creates new warnings in related code. Let's see the warnings in action by fixing the `index.cshtml.cs` class Open the `index.cshtml.cs` file and examine the code. This file contains the code behind for the index page:

Reviewer: "Sometimes" => "Almost always"? :)

Maybe not quite that strong, but I think it would be good to give the firm impression that if you feel you're playing whack-a-mole with warnings, that *doesn't* mean anything's wrong... unless you end up in a cycle.

Reviewer 4: @jskeet "Frequently?"

Reviewer: Works for me!

[!code-csharp[StarterIndexModel](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Index.cshtml.cs#IndexModelStart)]

> Add the `#nullable enable` directive and you'll see two warnings. Neither the `ErrorText` property nor the `NewsItems` property is initialized. An examination of this class would lead you to believe that both properties should be nullable reference types: Both have private setters. Exactly one is assigned in the `OnGet` method. Before making changes, look at the consumers of both properties. In the page itself, the `ErrorText` is checked against null before generating markup for any errors. The `NewsItems` collection is checked against `null`, and checked to ensure the collection has items. A quick fix would be to both properties nullable reference types. A better fix would be to make the collection a nonnullable reference type, and add items to the existing collection when retrieving news. The first fix is to add the `?` to the `string` type for the `ErrorText`:

Reviewer: "A quick fix would be to both" => "A quick fix would be to make both"

[!code-csharp[AddRange](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Index.cshtml.cs#AddRange)]

Using `AddRange` instead of an assignment means that the `GetNews` method can return an `IEnumerable` instead of a `List`. That saves one allocation. Change the signature of the method, and remove the `ToList` call, as shown in the following code sample:

[!code-csharp[GetNews](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/NewsService.cs#GetNewsFinished)]

Changing the signature breaks one of tests as well. Open the `NewsServiceTests.cs` file in the `Services` folder of the `SimpleFeedReader.Tests` project. Navigate to the `Returns_News_Stories_Given_Valid_Uri` test and change the type of the `result` variable to `IEnumerable<NewsItem>`. Changing the type means the `Count` property is no longer available, so replace the `Count` property in the `Assert` with a call to `Any()`:

[!code-csharp[FixTests](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader.Tests/Services/NewsServiceTests.cs#FixTestSignature)]

> You'll need to add a `using System.Linq` statement to the beginning of the file as well.

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning that there are *two* non-nullable types involved here, because of the generics? The reader might want to note that all of these would be *valid* (but not necessarily desirable in this particular case):

- `List<NewsStoryViewModel>`
- `List<NewsStoryViewModel?>`
- `List<NewsStoryViewModel>?`
- `List<NewsStoryViewModel?>?`

## Interfaces with external code

You've made changes to the `NewsService` class, so turn on the `#nullable enable` annotation for that class. This won't generate any new warnings. However, careful examination of the class helps to illustrate some of the limitations of the compiler's flow analysis. Examine the constructor:

[!code-csharp[ServiceConstructor](../../../samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/NewsService.cs#ServiceConstructor)]

> The `IMapper` parameter is types as a nonnullable reference. It's called by ASP.NET Core infrastructure code, so the compiler doesn't really know that the `IMapper` will never be null. The default ASP.NET dependency injection (DI) container throws an exception if it can't resolve a necessary service, so the code is correct. The compiler can't validate all calls to your public APIs, even if your code is compiled with nullable annotation contexts enabled. Furthermore your libraries may be consumed by projects that have not yet opted into using nullable reference types. Validate inputs to public APIs even though you've declared them as nonnullable types.

Reviewer: "is types" => "is typed"

Reviewer: (The validation part harks pack to what I mentioned before about "trusting" that the mapper will never pass null references to the `NewsStoryViewModel` constructor.)

Author: Per 2nd comment: Yes, that's going to be covered in another tutorial. See #10454 for the issue.

> The `IMapper` parameter is types as a nonnullable reference. It's called by ASP.NET Core infrastructure code, so the compiler doesn't really know that the `IMapper` will never be null. The default ASP.NET dependency injection (DI) container throws an exception if it can't resolve a necessary service, so the code is correct. The compiler can't validate all calls to your public APIs, even if your code is compiled with nullable annotation contexts enabled. Furthermore your libraries may be consumed by projects that have not yet opted into using nullable reference types. Validate inputs to public APIs even though you've declared them as nonnullable types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `IMapper` parameter is types as a nonnullable reference. It's called by ASP.NET Core infrastructure code, so the compiler doesn't really know that the `IMapper` will never be null. The default ASP.NET Core dependency injection (DI) container throws an exception if it can't resolve a necessary service, so the code is correct. The compiler can't validate all calls to your public APIs, even if your code is compiled with nullable annotation contexts enabled. Furthermore your libraries may be consumed by projects that have not yet opted into using nullable reference types. Validate inputs to public APIs even though you've declared them as nonnullable types.
```

---
title: Design with nullable reference types
description: This advanced tutorial provides an introduction to nullable reference types. You'll learn to express your design intent on when reference values may be null, and have the compiler enforce when they cannot be null.

> ms.date: 12/03/2018

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ms.date: 02/19/2019
```

ms.custom: mvc
---
# Tutorial: Migrate existing code with nullable reference types

C# 8 introduces **nullable reference types**, which complement reference types the same way nullable value types complement value types. You declare a variable to be a **nullable reference type** by appending a `?` to the type. For example, `string?` represents a nullable `string`. You can use these new types to more clearly express your design intent: some variables *must always have a value*, others *may be missing a value*. Any existing variables of a reference type would be interpreted as a non-nullable reference type. 

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Enable null reference checks as you work with code.
> * Diagnose and correct different warnings related to null values.
> * Manage the interface between nullable enabled and nullable disabled contexts.
> * Control nullable annotation contexts.

## Prerequisites

> You'll need to set up your machine to run .NET Core, including the C# 8.0 beta compiler. The C# 8 beta compiler is available with [Visual Studio 2019 preview 1 and later](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/preview/), or [.NET Core 3.0 preview 1](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.0).

Reviewer 3: Upgrade to preview 2?

```suggestion
You'll need to set up your machine to run .NET Core, including the C# 8.0 beta compiler. The C# 8 beta compiler is available with [Visual Studio 2019 preview 2 and later](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/preview/?utm_medium=microsoft&utm_source=docs.microsoft.com&utm_campaign=inline+link&utm_content=download+vs2019+preview), or [.NET Core 3.0 preview 2](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/3.0).
```

This tutorial assumes you're familiar with C# and .NET, including either Visual Studio or the .NET Core CLI.

> The sample application that you'll migrate is an RSS feed reader web app. It reads from a single RSS feed and displays summaries for the most recent articles. You can click on any of the articles to visit the site. The application is relatively new, but was written before nullable reference types were available. The design decisions for the application represented sound principles, but don't take advantage of this important language feature.

Reviewer 3: should this be in a section? It doesn't seem like it should be in the prereqs.

> The sample application that you'll migrate is an RSS feed reader web app. It reads from a single RSS feed and displays summaries for the most recent articles. You can click on any of the articles to visit the site. The application is relatively new, but was written before nullable reference types were available. The design decisions for the application represented sound principles, but don't take advantage of this important language feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The sample application that you'll migrate is an RSS feed reader web app. It reads from a single RSS feed and displays summaries for the most recent articles. You can click on any of the articles to visit the site. The application is relatively new but was written before nullable reference types were available. The design decisions for the application represented sound principles, but don't take advantage of this important language feature.
```

> The sample application includes a unit test library that validates the major functionality of the app. That project will make it easier to upgrade safely, if you change any of the implementation based on the warnings generated. You can download the starter code from our [samples GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The sample application includes a unit test library that validates the major functionality of the app. That project will make it easier to upgrade safely, if you change any of the implementation based on the warnings generated. You can download the starter code from the [dotnet/samples](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start) GitHub repository.
```

Your goal migrating a project should be to leverage the new language features so that you clearly express your intent on the nullability of variables, and do so in such a way that the compiler doesn't generate warnings when you have the nullable annotation context and nullable warning context set to `enabled`.

## Upgrade the projects to C# 8

A good first step is to determine the scope of the migration task. Start by upgrading the project to C# 8.0 (or newer). Add the `LangVersion` element to both csproj files for the web project and the unit test project:

```xml
<LangVersion>8.0</LangVersion>
```

Upgrading the language version selects C# 8.0, but does not enable the nullable annotation context or the nullable warning context. Rebuild the project to ensure that it builds without warnings.

> A good next step is to turn on the nullable annotation context and see how many warnings are generated.  Add the following element to both csproj files in the solution, directly under the `LangVersion` element:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A good next step is to turn on the nullable annotation context and see how many warnings are generated. Add the following element to both csproj files in the solution, directly under the `LangVersion` element:
```

```xml
<NullableContextOptions>enable</NullableContextOptions>
```

Do a test build, and notice the warning list. In this small application, the compiler generates five warnings, so it's likely you'd leave the nullable annotation context enabled and start fixing warnings for the entire project.

> That strategy works only for the smallest projects. For any larger projects, the number of warnings generated by enabling the nullable annotation context for the entire codebase makes it harder to fix the warnings systematically. For larger enterprise projects, you'll often want to migrate one project at a time. In each project, you'll migrate one class or file at a time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That strategy works only for smaller projects. For any larger projects, the number of warnings generated by enabling the nullable annotation context for the entire codebase makes it harder to fix the warnings systematically. For larger enterprise projects, you'll often want to migrate one project at a time. In each project, migrate one class or file at a time.
```

```csharp
#nullable enable
public class NewsStoryViewModel
{
    public DateTimeOffset Published { get; set; }
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public string Uri { get; set; }
}
#nullable restore
```

These two directives help you focus your migration efforts. The nullable warnings are generated for the area of code you're actively working on. You'll leave them on until you're ready to turn on the warnings for the entire project. You should use the `restore` rather than `disable` value so that you don't accidentally disable the context later when you've turned on nullable annotations for the entire project. Once you've turned on the nullable annotation context for the entire project, you can remove all the `#nullable` pragmas from that project.

The `NewsStoryViewModel` class is a data transfer object (DTO) and two of the properties are read/write strings:

> [!code-csharp[InitialViewModel](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start/SimpleFeedReader/ViewModels/NewsStoryViewModel.cs#StarterViewModel)]

Reviewer 3: This is empty:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12971179/53044452-e620bd00-343f-11e9-9f8a-79aa9c425c96.png)

```csharp
public class NewsStoryViewModel
{
    public DateTimeOffset Published { get; set; }
    public string Title { get; set; } = default!;
    public string Uri { get; set; } = default!;
}
```

The assignment of `Title` and `Uri` to `default` which is `null` for the `string` type doesn't change the runtime behavior of the program. The `NewsStoryViewModel` is still constructed with null values, but now the compiler reports no warnings. The **null-forgiving operator**, the `!` character following the `default` expression tells the compiler that the preceding expression is not null. This technique may be expedient when other changes force much larger changes to a code base, but in this application there is a relatively quick and better solution: Make the `NewsStoryViewModel` an immutable type where all the properties are set in the constructor. Make the following changes to the `NewsStoryViewModel`:

[!code-csharp[FinishedViewModel](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/ViewModels/NewsStoryViewModel.cs#FinishedViewModel)]

> Once that's done, you need to update the code that configures the automapper so that it uses the constructor rather than setting properties. Open `NewsService.cs` and look for the following code at the bottom of the file:

Reviewer 3: Should the capitalization of AutoMapper be consistent across the article?

```suggestion
Once that's done, you need to update the code that configures the AutoMapper so that it uses the constructor rather than setting properties. Open `NewsService.cs` and look for the following code at the bottom of the file:
```

[!code-csharp[StarterErrorModel](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/start/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Error.cshtml.cs#StartErrorModel)]

Add the `#nullable enable` directive before the class declaration, and a `#nullable restore` directive after it. You'll get one warning that `RequestId` is not initialized. By looking at the class, you should decide that the `RequestId` property should be null in some cases. The existence of the `ShowRequestId` property indicates that missing values are possible. Because `null` is valid, add the `?` on the `string` type to indicate the `RequestId` property is a *nullable reference type*. The final class looks like the following example:

[!code-csharp[FinishedErrorModel](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Error.cshtml.cs#ErrorModel)]

Check for the uses of the property, and you see that in the associated page, the property is checked for null before rendering it in markup. That's a safe use of a nullable reference type, so you're done with this class.

## Fixing nulls causes change

> Frequently, the fix for one set of warnings creates new warnings in related code. Let's see the warnings in action by fixing the `index.cshtml.cs` class Open the `index.cshtml.cs` file and examine the code. This file contains the code behind for the index page:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Frequently, the fix for one set of warnings creates new warnings in related code. Let's see the warnings in action by fixing the `index.cshtml.cs` class. Open the `index.cshtml.cs` file and examine the code. This file contains the code behind for the index page:
```

[!code-csharp[UpdateErrorText](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Index.cshtml.cs#UpdateErrorText)]

That change won't ripple through other code, because any access to the `ErrorText` property was already guarded by null checks. Next, initialize the `NewsItems` list and remove the property setter, making it a readonly property:

[!code-csharp[InitializeNewsItems](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Index.cshtml.cs#InitializeNewsItems)]

> That fixed the warning, but introduced an error. The `NewsItems` list is now **correct by construction**, but the code that sets the list in `OnGet` must change to match the new API. Instead of an assignment, call `AddRange` to add the news items to the existing list:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That fixed the warning but introduced an error. The `NewsItems` list is now **correct by construction**, but the code that sets the list in `OnGet` must change to match the new API. Instead of an assignment, call `AddRange` to add the news items to the existing list:
```

[!code-csharp[AddRange](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Pages/Index.cshtml.cs#AddRange)]

Using `AddRange` instead of an assignment means that the `GetNews` method can return an `IEnumerable` instead of a `List`. That saves one allocation. Change the signature of the method, and remove the `ToList` call, as shown in the following code sample:

> [!code-csharp[GetNews](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Services/NewsService.cs#GetNewsFinished)]

Reviewer 3: Another empty snippet:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12971179/53044833-f84f2b00-3440-11e9-9dfd-52c438eecea7.png)

You'll need to add a `using System.Linq` statement to the beginning of the file as well.

This set of changes highlights special consideration when updating code that includes generic instantiations. Both the list and the elements in the list of non-nullable types. Either or both could be nullable types. All the following declarations are allowed:

- `List<NewsStoryViewModel>`: nonnullable list of nonullable view models.
- `List<NewsStoryViewModel?>`: nonnullable list of nullable view models.
- `List<NewsStoryViewModel>?`: nullable list of nonnullable view models.
- `List<NewsStoryViewModel?>?`: nullable list of nullable view models.

## Interfaces with external code

You've made changes to the `NewsService` class, so turn on the `#nullable enable` annotation for that class. This won't generate any new warnings. However, careful examination of the class helps to illustrate some of the limitations of the compiler's flow analysis. Examine the constructor:

[!code-csharp[ServiceConstructor](~/samples/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished/SimpleFeedReader/Services/NewsService.cs#ServiceConstructor)]

> The `IMapper` parameter is typed as a nonnullable reference. It's called by ASP.NET Core infrastructure code, so the compiler doesn't really know that the `IMapper` will never be null. The default ASP.NET Core dependency injection (DI) container throws an exception if it can't resolve a necessary service, so the code is correct. The compiler can't validate all calls to your public APIs, even if your code is compiled with nullable annotation contexts enabled. Furthermore your libraries may be consumed by projects that have not yet opted into using nullable reference types. Validate inputs to public APIs even though you've declared them as nonnullable types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `IMapper` parameter is typed as a nonnullable reference. It's called by ASP.NET Core infrastructure code, so the compiler doesn't really know that the `IMapper` will never be null. The default ASP.NET Core dependency injection (DI) container throws an exception if it can't resolve a necessary service, so the code is correct. The compiler can't validate all calls to your public APIs, even if your code is compiled with nullable annotation contexts enabled. Furthermore, your libraries may be consumed by projects that have not yet opted into using nullable reference types. Validate inputs to public APIs even though you've declared them as nonnullable types.
```

## Get the code

> You've fixed the warnings you identified in the initial test compile, so now you can turn on the nullable annotation context for both projects. Rebuild the projects; the compiler reports no warnings. You can get the code for the finished project in our [samples GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You've fixed the warnings you identified in the initial test compile, so now you can turn on the nullable annotation context for both projects. Rebuild the projects; the compiler reports no warnings. You can get the code for the finished project in the [dotnet/samples](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/csharp/tutorials/nullable-reference-migration/finished) GitHub repository.
```
